.TH pam_sentinel 8 "" "Sentinel" "PAM modules"

.SH NAME
pam_sentinel \- PAM module that gates authentication on a graphical confirmation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B auth sufficient pam_sentinel.so

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pam_sentinel
is the PAM module half of Sentinel. Loaded by libpam in any PAM stack
that references it (typically
.IR /etc/pam.d/polkit-1
and optionally
.IR /etc/pam.d/sudo ),
it gates authentication on a graphical confirm/deny dialog rendered by
.BR sentinel-helper (1).

For each authentication attempt the module performs one of four
actions:

.IP \(bu 4
.B Bypass:
if Sentinel's polkit agent has pre-approved this auth (see
.BR sentinel-polkit-agent (1)),
the module reads "OK" from the agent's local socket and returns
.B PAM_SUCCESS
without spawning a dialog. This is the path for `pkexec`-style auth.

.IP \(bu 4
.B Dialog:
otherwise, the module forks
.B sentinel-helper
to render the layer-shell confirmation overlay. Allow returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS ;
Deny / timeout returns
.BR PAM_AUTH_ERR .

.IP \(bu 4
.B Headless:
no Wayland display is available. The module's
.B headless_action
config option decides whether to allow, deny, or fall through (default:
fall through to the next PAM module, which is usually a password prompt).

.IP \(bu 4
.B Disabled:
.B enabled = false
in
.IR /etc/security/sentinel.conf .
Returns
.B PAM_IGNORE
immediately.

.SH OPTIONS
The module accepts no module-line options. Configuration lives in
.IR /etc/security/sentinel.conf
(see
.BR sentinel.conf (5)).

.SH RECOMMENDED PAM CONTROL

.B sufficient
is the recommended control:

.RS
.EX
auth       sufficient pam_sentinel.so
auth       include    system-auth
.EE
.RE

If Sentinel returns
.BR PAM_SUCCESS ,
the rest of the stack is skipped (no password). For any other return
code the stack continues, so a Sentinel failure (helper crash, headless
fallback) doesn't lock the user out.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/security/pam_sentinel.so
The module library. Mode 0755 (the execute bit is required by libpam
under sandboxed PAM stacks like systemd-socket-activated
.BR polkit-agent-helper-1 ).
.TP
.I /etc/security/sentinel.conf
Configuration file. See
.BR sentinel.conf (5).
.TP
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/sentinel-agent.sock
Bypass socket the module connects to when present. Owned by the
requesting user, mode 0600.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
Read by
.BR sentinel-helper (1)
to locate the user's Wayland session. The PAM module sets this if it
finds the user's runtime socket.

.SH LOGGING
The module logs to syslog facility
.B AUTH
under the identifier
.BR pam_sentinel .
Inspect with:

.RS
.EX
journalctl -t pam_sentinel
.EE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLE
Verify the helper binary and module are co-installed and at the same
release:

.RS
.EX
$ sentinel-helper --version
sentinel-helper 0.6.0
$ pacman -Qi sentinel | grep Version    # or `dpkg -s sentinel`
Version  : 0.6.0-1
.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel.conf (5),
.BR sentinel-helper (1),
.BR sentinel-polkit-agent (1),
.BR pam.conf (5),
.BR polkit-agent-helper-1 (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Atay Özcan <atay@oezcan.me>

.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/atayozcan/sentinel
