.TH sentinel.conf 5 "" "Sentinel" "Configuration files"

.SH NAME
sentinel.conf \- configuration file for the Sentinel PAM module

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/security/sentinel.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sentinel.conf
configures the behaviour of
.BR pam_sentinel (8),
the PAM module half of Sentinel. The file is read on every authentication
attempt; changes take effect immediately, no daemon to reload.

The format is TOML. Top-level tables:
.BR [general] ,
.BR [appearance] ,
and per-service overrides under
.BR [services. <name>] .

.SH [general]
.TP
.B enabled = bool
Master switch. When false, the module returns
.B PAM_IGNORE
immediately and the rest of the PAM stack runs unchanged. Default: true.
.TP
.B timeout = uint
Auto-deny timeout in seconds. 0 disables the timeout. Default: 30.
.TP
.B randomize_buttons = bool
Swap the Allow/Deny button positions randomly to deter scripted clickers.
Default: true.
.TP
.B headless_action = "allow" | "deny" | "password"
What to do when no Wayland display is available (SSH session, console
login, headless server).
.B "password"
returns
.B PAM_IGNORE
so the next module (typically pam_unix) runs.
.B "allow"
returns
.B PAM_SUCCESS
silently — dangerous, only use if you're sure.
.B "deny"
returns
.B PAM_AUTH_ERR.
Default: "password".
.TP
.B show_process_info = bool
Display the requesting process's exe path in the dialog. Default: true.
.TP
.B log_attempts = bool
Log every allow/deny/timeout to syslog (auth.info). Default: true.
.TP
.B min_display_time_ms = uint
Disable the Allow button for this many milliseconds after the dialog
appears, blocking instant scripted clicks. Default: 500.

.SH [appearance]
.TP
.B title = string
Dialog title. Default: "Authentication Required". No substitutions.
.TP
.B message = string
Primary dialog message. Substitutions allowed (see TOKENS below).
.TP
.B secondary = string
Secondary text below the message. Substitutions allowed.

.SH [services.<name>]
Per-PAM-service overrides. Any key from
.B [general]
or
.B [appearance]
can be overridden here. The
.I <name>
matches the PAM service exactly:
.BR sudo ,
.BR polkit-1 ,
.BR su ,
etc.
.PP
Example: be more lenient with polkit but stricter with su.
.PP
.RS
.EX
[services.polkit-1]
timeout = 60

[services.su]
enabled = false
.EE
.RE

.SH TOKENS
Inside
.B message
and
.B secondary
the following expand at runtime:
.TP
.B %u
The user being authenticated.
.TP
.B %s
The PAM service name (e.g. sudo, polkit-1).
.TP
.B %p
The requesting process's executable path.
.TP
.B %%
A literal `%`.

.SH EXAMPLE

.RS
.EX
[general]
enabled = true
timeout = 30
randomize_buttons = true
headless_action = "password"

[appearance]
title = "Authentication Required"
message = 'The application "%p" is requesting elevated privileges.'
secondary = "Click Allow to continue or Deny to cancel."

[services.sudo]
timeout = 30
randomize_buttons = true
.EE
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/security/sentinel.conf
The configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sentinel/install.state
Installer's record of files it created or replaced. Used by uninstall(1)
to restore the pre-install state.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pam_sentinel (8),
.BR sentinel-helper (1),
.BR sentinel-polkit-agent (1),
.BR pam.conf (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Atay Özcan <atay@oezcan.me>

.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/atayozcan/sentinel
